Project Description 
1. Aim of the Project:
This project is devloped using the general requirement by the user while using the Directory book  and provided a lot of facility to their user .The objective of my project
contacts is to record the details of varies information of the user.
⦁	Fast speed data processing.
⦁	To record the details of various information of user.
⦁	It will simplify the task and reduse the paperwork.
⦁	This project is very user friendly.
⦁	Easily accessed by administrators,academic,student,andapplicants.
  2. Business Problem or Problem Statement:
Businesses can face a number of problems when it comes to maintaining contact details, including: 
Inaccurate or outdated information
Contact information can become outdated due to people moving, changing jobs, or passing away. This can lead to wasted time and money when trying to communicate with the wrong person. 
Contacts spread across multiple databases
Without proper planning, contacts can end up in multiple email accounts and other databases. This can make it difficult to find the right information. 
Contacts lost when employees leave
When employees move on, they often take their contacts with them. 
Difficulty connecting with people
Inaccurate or outdated information can make it difficult to connect with people. 
To maintain contact details, businesses can: 
Implement a data validation process: This can help identify and correct inaccuracies. 
Conduct regular audits and updates: This can help keep information current and relevant. 
This can help save contact information and send reminders to check in. 

 3. Project Description: 
This project based on contact list book. It keeps the all the contacts saved in the list,
personal as well as business-related.This contacts  project was devloped by using Python programming lanuage.
The main benifit of this contact list book is that a person can replace hard book what is use for writing the contacts by using this project. By this project user can easily save in cotacts are "NAME","AGE","EMAIL" and,"MOBILE NUMBER" access by:
⦁	1. create contact
⦁	2. view contact
⦁	3. update contact
⦁	4. delete contact
⦁	5. search contact
⦁	6. total no of contacts
⦁	7. exit
4. Functionalities:   
⦁	 1. create contact:
              The purpose of creating a contact list is to organize and store contact information in a centralized place, making it easier to communicate with people. Contact lists can be used for a variety of purposes, including: 
Sending emails
A contact list can be used to send an email to a group of people by adding the list to the "To" line of an email. 
Creating targeted subgroups
Contact lists can be used to create targeted subgroups of a database, which can be used for a variety of purposes, such as building subscription-management controls or reporting on email results. 
Streamlining communication
Contact lists can make communication more efficient by removing the need to remember individual phone numbers or email addresses. 
Including in other contact lists 
Contact lists can include a variety of contact information, such as names, addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses. 
⦁	2. view contact:
           Views contact can be useful for managing contact lists in various ways, including:
Filtering:
Views can filter records based on property values, allowing you to limit the records you see. For example, you can create a view to show only completed contacts.
Quick checks:
You can create views on the spot to quickly check a specific data set or group.
Saving:
You can save views to come back to and review continuously.
   
⦁	3. update contact:
             Keeping business contacts organized and updated is essential for the success of any business. Not only does it increase productivity, improve communication, lead to new opportunities, and better decision-making, but it also prevents the significant costs of lost contacts.
If you don't update your contact information, you might miss out on important reminders and time-sensitive prompts. 
⦁	4. delete contact:
             Ultimately, the decision to delete  contact depends on your bussinuss need and circumstances. If you believe that having that contact could hinder your bussinuss to growth, it might be beneficial to delete it. Conversely, if you think you might need to communicate with them in the future, you may choose to keep it for now. Trust your instincts and prioritize what would be the best for your bussinus growth.
⦁	5. search contact:
        A search contact list can help your business in several ways, including: 
when you have more number of contacts:
⦁	6. total no of contacts:
            It help the user to know how many contacts he has
⦁	7. exit:
       This is the function of project in which user have option to exist from that programme while loop.
5. Input Versatility with Error Handling and Exception Handling: 
   Exception handling is the process of responding to unexpected events that can occur while a computer program is running. Error handling, on the other hand, helps maintain the normal flow of a program's execution. 
Exception handling is useful for dealing with exceptions that cannot be handled locally. Instead of showing an error status in the program, the exception handler transfers control to where the error can be handled. A function can throw exceptions or can choose to handle exceptions.
here exception in this project I give else condition to handel exception when will error or invalid or not exist it will print else condition.
6. Code Implementation: 
To implement the project, we utilize basic Python programming concepts to create a modular 
and maintainable codebase. We leverage key algorithms and data structures to efficiently 
manage data processing tasks. The code is organized into modules to ensure modularity and 
readability, with extensive documentation provided for clarity and future development. 
Description: 
In this project, we implement various modules using basic Python programming concepts. 
Each module is designed to handle specific functionalities of the contacts list. 
For example, let's consider the implementation of a contacts module:


contacts={}                                    # Created empty dictonary to store user detail.
while True:                                     # While loop for selecting choice.
    print("\n CONTACT LIST BOOK")             
    print("1. create contact")
    print("2. view contact")
    print("3. update contact")                   # To ask from user to select from sevan option.
    print("4. delete contact")
    print("5. search contact")
    print("6. total no of contacts")
    print("7. exit")


    choice=input("enter your choice:")            # Ask user to select choice in string format.

    if choice =="1":                                          # To create contacts in dictionary contacts.   
        name=input("NAME:")
        if name in contacts:                                 # If name already exist then print this statement. 
            print(f"contact name {name} already exists")
        else:                                                # If not then else condition to create contact.   
            age=input("age:")
            email=input("email:")
            mobile=input("mobile no.:")
            contacts[name]={"age":int(age),"email":email,"mobile no.":mobile}
            print(f"contact name {name} successfully created")

    elif choice == "2":                                     # To view all cotact store in dictonary contacts .
        name=input("contact name to view:")                 # if name exist in cotact list show else that contact not exist.
        if name in contacts:
            cotacts=contacts[name]
            print(f"name:{name},age:{age},email:{email},mobile no:{mobile}")
        else:
            print("contact name does not exist in contact list book ")
    elif choice=="3":                                               # To update contact detail. 
        name =input("enter contact name to update detail:")
        if name  in contacts:
            age=input(" updated age:")                             # if contact name exist in dictonary contacts it will updated. 
            email=input("updated email:")                          
            mobile=input("updated mobile no.:")
            contacts[name]={"updated age":int(age),"email":email,"mobile no.":mobile}
            print(f"contact name {name} successfully updated")
        else:                                                       # # else it will print does not exist.
            print("contact name does not exist in contact list book")
    elif choice == "4":                                              # To delete contact exist in dictonary contacts.
        name=input("enter contact name to delete:")                  # if name exist in contacts dictonary then it will be deleted. 
        if name in contacts:                                         
            del contacts[name]
            print(f"contacts name {name} has been deleted successfully")
        else:                                                         # # else that contact name does not exist.
            print("contact name does not exist in contact list book")
         

    elif choice=="5":                                                # To search contact in contacts.
        search_name=input("enter cotacts name to search")
        found=False
        for name,contact in contacts.items():                        # name,contact in contacts. if found true then print that
            if search_name.lower() in name.lower():
                print(f"Found -name:{name},age:{age},mobile no:{mobile},email:{email}")
                found=True
        if not found:                                                   # if not found true then print no contact found with that name.
            print("no contact found with that name")
    elif choice=="6":                                                    # To find no of total contact by len. 
        print(f"total contacts in your contact book:{len(contacts)}")
    elif choice=="7":                                                    # To close the programe 
        print("closing the programe") 
        break                                                             # break the while loop here.
    else:                                                                 # if input neither one of all sevan choice the else to print invalid input
        print("invalid input! please select from avove sevan option(1-7)")


In this code snippet, we define a dictonary of contacts to store all contact of user with other detail.
such as  CONTACT LIST BOOK          
    1. create contact
    2. view contact
    3. update contact                
    4. delete contact
    5. search contact
    6. total no of contacts
    7. exit
list of contacts, allowing us to add contact and display their information. 
By organizing our code in this manner, we ensure clarity, maintainability, and ease of future 
enhancements or modifications.

7. Results and Outcomes: 
Through the project implementation, we achieved a significant reduction in administrative 
workload and improved communication between stakeholders. The contacts streamlined processes, enhanced data accuracy, and provided valuable insights for 
decision-making, resulting in improved efficiency and effectiveness in bussinuss operations. 
8. Conclusion: 
In conclusion, our contacts list offers a comprehensive solution to address the 
administrative challenges faced to manage contacts. With its user-friendly interface, 
robust features, and scalability, the system has the potential to revolutionize comunication with their stackholder.
management practices and contribute to the overall success of bussinuss. 
developments may include additional modules for finance their Addresses 
analysis, and integration with analysis managment system.
 
